# Shell v2

Shell v2 is a project for Holberton which emulates the Unix shell `/bin/sh`.
Over 22 days, I wrote this entire project from scratch.

## The Development Process
My primary focus was to limit memory usage. In Shell v1, I was very reckless with my memory, copying many things many times as it was the most straight forward for me as a student in early Foundations at Holberton. Now a year later, I knew I wanted to avoid this approach and instead optimize and use minimal memory, even if I spent a lot of extra development time as a result. I used linked lists and pointers to my advantage with great results in this project. Because of this, my shell has about a 2600 byte start up cost to initialize my environment variable list, and only uses about 300 bytes for each simple command, including setenv and unsetenv which were huge road blocks in Shell v1. Thanks to my efforts, Shell v2 uses about 100x less memory than my Shell v1.

## Setbacks
I had to undergo 2 massive rewrites of my core logic. The first was 14 days into the project, where I realized that commands do not necessarily have spaces around separator and redirection operators. My core relied on these spaces, using the strtok() function with space as a delimiter. Thankfully about half of my logic transferred to the new system, where I abandoned my old strtok() strategy and coded a new function that actually used LESS memory despite being more complex. The second rewrite was actually 20 days in, where I noticed that multiple pipe operators could be present in one command. My previous infastructure relied on exactly 1 pipe, and so I had to write a new function that allowed for any number of pipes in a command. My core logic explicitly had a collection of words LEFT of a redirect operator and RIGHT of a redirect operator, but those had to be replaced with a linked list of collections. This rewrite was pretty seamless, but also fairly stressful to be done so close to the deadline. I am very proud of myself for working so dilligently throughout the entire deadline, and to finish 100% of the mandatory tasks feels awesome.
